[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey, everybody.
What's up?
It's Rob Dodson.
Welcome back to the show.
So in the last episode,
I was showing you
how you set up Firebase
authentication in your Polymer
project.
Today, I want to
continue on from where
we left off in the
last episode and start
working with Firebase's
real-time database.
And so what we're
going to build today
is going to be kind of like
a simple note-taking app,
or like a to-do
list sort of thing.
So follow me over
here on my laptop.
I'm already signed into
the Firebase console.
And because I want to have
each user have their own space
in the database for
their own unique notes,
I'm going to need to
set up some database
rules about who can write to
which parts of the database.
So if I go to the
Database section here--
I click on the Database
tab-- if you just
set up your project, you'll
probably see a note right
here that says, like,
"Default security rules
require users to
be authenticated,"
and then there's this
Learn More button.
And you can click on that.
And actually, it'll
open up a new tab,
and it'll explain how
Firebase's database rules work.
Firebase's database rules use
sort of a JSON-like syntax,
which is very interesting.
But the thing
that's really handy
here is the Sample
Rules section.
So like I said, I want
to have every user have
their own unique
space in the database,
and that's such a common
ask that there's already,
if you click on
this User tab here,
there's already
some example rules
that will do that for you.
And so I can walk
through how these work.
So basically, we've had our
rules object, and then we're
going to define it so
it matches the URLs
that we'll use for
our database calls.
So we're going to start
with a users object right
at the root of our database.
And then within that, there's
this sort of special syntax
here for this $uid thing.
And that is kind of
like a Firebase database
variable of sorts.
It's a dynamic rule.
And what that will do is refer
to whatever is the current user
ID that we are working with--
sort of the /users/ some user
ID.
And then we're
saying whoever can
read to that space, their
uid or the uid space
that we're trying to write
to-- that will need to match
the authenticated user's uid.
So that's for reading
and for writing.
So I'm just going to copy
this bit of boilerplate
here, go back to my console,
and click on the Rules tab.
And I can highlight all
this, paste that in there,
and then make sure
to click Publish so
that these rules become active.
Cool.
We've said that
only certain users
can write to certain
spots in the database.
Basically, you
can't read and write
to other people's to-do list.
So far, so good?
Now, follow me back over to
my laptop, and let's go ahead
and start putting some
data in the database.
So I'm going to create a new
element called my-notes.html,
and I'm just going to paste
in some HTML imports that
I've saved.
And I'll close the sidebar there
so we can bump this up a little
bit and you can
see what I've got.
So in this element,
I'm importing Polymer,
I'm importing firebase-auth.
So I'll show you why
we need that again.
I'm importing firebase-query.
So this is what we'll use
to actually talk to and read
from the database.
Paper-input-- so the user can
enter some values, and then
iron-flex-layout.
And I think we've actually
maybe already imported
paper-buttons somewhere
else, but it's probably good
to import that here, as
well, because we're going
to use a paper-button, too.
So I'll say paper-button.
Rad.
Let us begin by
defining an element.
So we're just going to
call this element my-notes.
And the first thing
I'm going to do
is actually use the
firebase-auth element, again,
inside of my-notes.
Now, I used this in
our previous episode
to build our sign-in
and sign-out buttons.
So here, what I'm
to do is I'm also
going to expose the user
object inside of this element.
And what's kind of cool about
the firebase-auth element
is that whenever a user
signs in, basically,
all instances of the
firebase-auth element
that we have sprinkled
in our app-- all of
them will simultaneously
get that new user data.
They'll get the user object.
And so you can treat
this element like a model
that any other element can
just sort of declaratively bind
to and extract information
about the user.
So you can pop these auth
elements into different spots
in your app, wherever
you might need
to reference the user for
some reason, which is pretty
interesting and pretty handy.
So we're going to
combine that with
the firebase-query element.
So the firebase-query
element basically
lets us talk to the
Firebase database,
and specifically, talk to
arrays in the Firebase database.
So I'm going to give this
element an ID of query.
So we'll say ID is query.
We will use that later to
reference it in our JavaScript.
We're going to say
that it's path.
So this is the path in the
database where we're going
to be reading and writing to.
That will be /users/, and then
we will bind to the current
user's user ID, and then we will
write to their notes section.
And then we'll say the data
that comes back from Firebase--
we're going to expose that in
our app as this notes object.
So I'll go down here to
my element definition.
I will define a properties
object for that notes thing.
So we'll say the type is object.
And now I want to add
sort of like a list
so I can render out all of those
to-dos that start coming back
from the server.
So let's see.
So we'll start.
We'll define a div.
We'll just call it card
or something like that.
And then inside of here,
I'm going to create maybe
another div called notes.
[INAUDIBLE] say notes.
Inside of here,
make a ul, and we'll
give it an ID of notes-list.
Instead of here, I'm going
to do a dom-repeat template.
So I'll say template
is dom-repeat.
The items that it's
going to iterate over
will be those notes that
are coming in from the user.
And we will say that
we want each note to be
referred to just as a note.
And then inside of here,
we'll create list items.
And inside of each
list item, I will just
drop in a paragraph tag.
I'll give it a class of
content, and I will say
that I want the note.content.
So we haven't really defined
what a note looks like,
but I'm going to assume
that it'll have this content
property on it, and that'll just
be the text content of the note
itself.
The next thing I
need to do is I need
to add some controls so someone
can type in a note, and then
a button so that they can
add it and it'll send it up
to Firebase.
So I've actually got
a little bit of code
for this that I've just
already saved in my clipboard.
So I'll just paste that
in here real quick,
and we can walk through this.
So I've got a paper-input
element with an ID of input.
That'll be useful
later because we'll
refer to it in JavaScript.
And it's just got a label
that tells the person,
"Hey, take a note."
And then I've got inside of that
a paper-button with an ID of
add.
We're going to refer to
this in JavaScript, too.
And basically, whenever
someone taps on it,
we're just going to
run this add function.
So let's implement
that add function.
So right under our properties,
we'll say add is function.
And so what we want
to do is we want
to take the reference to
the Firebase database,
and there's two things
you can do then.
You can either set a value,
or you can push values.
Setting is if you're just
dropping in a single object.
Pushing is if you're
pushing array-like data up
to the database, and
that's basically what
we're doing with these to-dos.
So we want to use
the push method
on our Firebase instance.
So to do that, we're
going to go up here.
We'll look at our query element,
which has this ID of query,
and we can say this.$.query.ref.
So that's going to be a
reference to that path that it
has defined-- so
/users, user ID, notes.
So give me a reference to
that path in the database,
and then push an object to it.
And this object is just going
to have one property, which
will be content.
And then that's going to come
from this .$.input.value.
So that's just our
input textfield.
And after someone
hits the Add button,
it'd be nice to clear
out the text field
so it can keep adding to-dos.
So right after we
push the value,
we'll also say
this.$.input.value equals no.
Let's switch over to our
terminal and fire this up.
So we'll say firebase serve,
and then go to localhost 5000.
We will open up our
console because errors
happen sometimes.
We will go, and we will
start typing a note.
So let's see.
We'll say, "Hello
Polycasters," and we'll add it.
And there we go.
Now it's showing up
inside of our list.
So that just sort of confirms
that everything worked.
We could, if we want, though,
go over to the Firebase console,
go back to the Data
tab, and you can
see these green rectangles
indicate that we just wrote
some data to the database.
So you can see users,
my crazy user ID, notes,
and then this unique ID.
So every time you push
something to Firebase--
any time you're working
with array-like data--
instead of using numeric
indices like 0, 1, 2,
Firebase will actually
create unique IDs.
And this is really
useful because if you
have a bunch of different
people all trying
to push to the database
at the same time,
if you were using just
numeric keys like 0, 1, 2,
you could probably end up
with some weird transactional
issues.
So instead, Firebase
creates these sort
of unique identifiers.
So it can do the
bookkeeping after the fact
to make sure data gets
synchronized and mushed
together in the right ordering.
And I can see inside of here the
actual value content, "Hello,
Polycasters."
What's cool about the
Firebase database--
this is probably my absolute
favorite feature of Firebase--
is it's super easy to
play around with the data
once it's in there.
So for instance, if I want to
change this to finish the demo,
I can just update the text--
so "Finish this demo"--
and hit Enter.
And now everything turns yellow
to indicate that it changed.
I go back to my
note-taking app, and you
can see that that value has
been updated here, as well.
So we can add some more to-dos.
We could say, "Go out and vote."
It is November 8 as
I'm recording this.
And then we will say,
"Hopefully celebrate??"
So we can keep adding things
to this to-do list if we want.
The next thing I
want to do, though,
is I want to be able to delete
items off of my to-do list.
And this is pretty
easy to do, as well.
So we go back to
our code editor,
and I'm going to add a
couple more imports up here
to the top.
So I'm going to drop in.
Let's see.
I've got a couple
of these saved.
So I'll drop in a
paper-input button,
and I'm also going to
drop in iron-icons.
Now, I'm only going to use one
icon from the iron-icons set.
And so normally, I
would say if you're
using only a handful of icons
from the iron-icons set,
it's best to go and
create your own icon set.
And you can do that pretty
easily using iron-iconset-svg,
and literally just copy
and pasting the stuff out
of iron-icons.
But because we're
just doing a demo,
I'm not going to go through
making my entire icon set.
So I'm going to use
iron-icons directly.
But for performance
overhead, it's
often a good idea just to
create your own icon set.
So I'm going to include
a paper-icon-button.
And then basically
right after where
we've written the
content for our note,
I'm just going to drop
in a paper-icon-button.
I'm giving it an icon of
clear so it'll be like an x.
And then I've got this
property here called note,
and I'm actually just
setting a property
on the paper-icon-button.
I'm setting a reference
to the entire note object
that this line item
is referring to.
And the reason I'm doing
that is because I'm
going to use the
key of that note
to then go on and
delete it in Firebase.
And so lastly, I've got this
on-tap event listener here,
and I'm saying I want to
call this remove function.
So let's implement
that remove function.
So I'm going to say remove is
a function-- gets an event.
So we'll say that
the key is equal
to e.CurrentTarget.note.key.
And I think maybe they use $key
to reference it in Firebase.
Note.key-- I think that's right.
Yep.
And then we're going to
say this.$.query.child,
and then we will
give it the key.
We're giving it this value right
here-- this.child.key.remove.
So that basically says
go to the database,
find the object that
matches this key, delete it.
So go back to [INAUDIBLE].
Actually, before I do that,
I'm going to drop in some CSS,
as well, to make this
look really pretty.
So right above our
Firebase off, we'll
drop in a big style block.
And honestly, you don't
really need to worry too much
about what I'm doing here.
I'm just sort of
positioning things
so our icon's
floating to the right
and our text is
to the left using
iron-flex-layout--
nothing too interesting.
So I'm not going to spend
too much time on it.
But I just wanted the
demo to look nice.
I'd go back to [INAUDIBLE]--
refresh the page.
And now we have our
notes showing up here.
We've got these Xs
showing up here,
and I can go and X them out.
And who, we got an error.
This.$.query.child
remove is not a function.
What?
Let's see what I
typed wrong here.
I need to have ref.child.
Let's try that again.
Refresh the page, and we will--
boom-- start deleting items.
Yeah, yeah.
And we win.
We're all done, I think.
So that about
covers it for today.
We covered some of
the basics of working
with the real-time database.
We've got user authentication
working with this app.
The next episode, I think
I want to explore maybe
how we deploy this thing and
get it working on Firebase
hosting-- might try to come
up with some other interesting
topics to include in
that episode, as well.
If there's anything that maybe
you're interested in seeing,
please leave me a
comment down below
and I can try and work that
in, or you can hit me up
on a social network of your
choosing at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey, what's up?
Thank you so much for watching
this episode of "Polycast."
If you want to check out
more, I got some over here
on the playlist.
And you can also always
click the Subscribe button
and get notified when
we launch new episodes.
Thanks for watching.